= Tokyo Cache Cow

Tokyo Cache Cow is MemCache protocol speaking cache server. It offers the ability to delete keys based on a substring.

== Motivation

Cache sweepers in rails do not currently operate with memcache because the memcache server itself does not support key matching removal operations. After reading http://www.igvita.com/2009/02/13/tokyo-cabinet-beyond-key-value-store/ and seeing the performance characteristics of that database, I thought I'd give it a go. Event Machine does the heavy lifting on the network end. Performance is currently comparable to memcached.

== Prerequisites

You'll need the eventmachine gem installed. As well, you'll have to install Tokyo Cabinet itself (available at http://tokyocabinet.sourceforge.net/index.html) and the Tokyo Cabinet Ruby bindings (available at http://tokyocabinet.sourceforge.net/rubypkg/)

== Example (using the rails client under script/console)
  
Lets write four keys: <i>other_key</i>, <i>test_key</i>, <i>test_key2</i> and <i>test_key3</i>.
  
  >> Rails.cache.write('other_key', 'other_value')
  => true
  >> Rails.cache.write('test_key', 'test_value')
  => true
  >> Rails.cache.write('test_key2', 'test_value2')
  => true
  >> Rails.cache.write('test_key3', 'test_value3')
  => true

Read back <i>test_key</i> and make sure life is still good.

  >> Rails.cache.read('test_key2')
  => "test_value2"

But lets delete <i>test_key2</i> for fun.

  >> Rails.cache.delete('test_key2')
  => true

Confirm that <i>test_key2</i> is really gone.

  >> Rails.cache.read('test_key2')
  => nil

.. but our other keys (namely, <i>test_key</i>) are just fine, thank you.

  >> Rails.cache.read('test_key')
  => "test_value"

.. lets nuke *EVERYTHING* with <i>test_key</i> in it though.

  >> Rails.cache.delete_matched('test_key')
  => true

Now <i>test_key</i> and <i>test_key3</i> are both nuked.

  >> Rails.cache.read('test_key')
  => nil
  >> Rails.cache.read('test_key3')
  => nil

But <i>other_key</i> is still peachy.

  >> Rails.cache.read('other_key')
  => "other_value"


== Usage

=== Server


  >> tokyo_cache_cow --help

  Usage: tokyo_cache_cow [options]
  Options:
      -p, --port[OPTIONAL]             Port (default: 11211)
      -a, --address[OPTIONAL]          Address (default: 0.0.0.0)
      -c, --class[OPTIONAL]            Cache provider class (default: TokyoCacheCow::Cache::TokyoCabinetMemcache)
      -r, --require[OPTIONAL]          require
      -f, --file[OPTIONAL]             File (default: /tmp/tcc-cache)
      -d, --daemonize[OPTIONAL]        Daemonize (default: false)
      -P, --pid[OPTIONAL]              Pid file (default: /tmp/tcc.pid)
      -m, --matcher[OPTIONAL]          Special flag for doing matched deletes (not enabled by default)
      -h, --help                       Show this help message.

=== Client

Any standard memcache client will do, however, there is a special initialize for Rails to enable delete_matched functionality within the built-in memcache client there. To install this into rails:

  script/plugin install git://github.com/joshbuddy/tokyo-cache-cow.git
  
== Caveats

Right now there is no compression on disk. Things could get big, but Tokyo Cabinet does support various compression schemes, so exposing that to the runner should be trivial. Potentially performance could degrade after time, but I have yet to seriously investigate if thats the case.

Feel the moo.